# AutoCompleteTextView
            	
## Introduction
The purpose of the AutoCompleteTextView component is that it is an editable text view that shows completed inputs as suggestions automatically when the user is typing. 

## History
AutoCompleteTextView has been since around API level 1 and is therefore one of if not the oldest component still widely used today. The component has gone through a long list of changes ever since its introduction. In api 3 clearListSelection, getDropDownAnchor, getDropDownWidth, getListSelection, getOnItemClickListener, isPerformingCompletion, onCommitCompletion, onKeyPreIme, setDropDownAnchor, setDropDownWidth, and setListSelection were added. In this update getItemClickListener, and getItemSelectedListener were deprecated. In api 4 getDropDownHeight and setDropDownHeight were added. In api 5 getDropDownBackground, getDropDownHeight, getDropDownHorizontalOffset, getDropDownVerticalOffset, and their respective setter methods were added. In api level 8 onDisplayHint was added. In this update the constant fill_parent for both dropdownwidth and dropdownheight were deprecated and replaced with match_parent. In api 16 getCompletionHint was added. In api 17 setOnDismissListener, and setText were added. In api 21 a new constructor was added. In api 24 another constructor was added.
The component is located in the widget library along with the arrayadapter class which is required to use this component. 

## Major Methods/Attributes
There is only one method that a developer is required to use in order to get proper use out of this component. That is the setAdapter method  The setAdapter method takes an ArrayAdapter object and serves to set the list of items that appears as suggested when the user is typing.
There are 2 nested interfaces in this component. One being AutoCompleteTextView.OnDismissListener and the other being AutoCompleteTextView.Validator. The  AutoCompleteTextView.OnDismissListener is a listener that responds to the AutoCompleteTextView’s completed list being dismissed while the validator double checks that the text entered in the TextView follows a specific format. 

There are many XML attributes that are used some being completionHint,completionThreshold,dropDownAnchor,dropDownHeight,dropDownSelector,dropDownWidth and popupBackground. The completionHint attributes defines the hint displayed in the drop down bar, while the completionThreshold defines the number of characters that the user has to type before the completed suggestions are shown in the drop down bar. The dropDownAnchor view to anchor the auto-completed dropdown bar. The dropDownSelector is a selector in the dropdown bar which is part of the list.The dropDownHeight and dropDownWidth are specified for the size of the dropdown bar through the height and width. The last one out of all would be the popupBackground where it is a background used for the popup window. There are many more XML attributes but these are the main ones that are for editing. 
	There are also inherited XML attributes from the class android.widget.TextView and android.view.View. Some android.widget.Textview XML include autoLink, autoSizeMaxTextSize, autoSizeMinTextSize, autoSizePresetSizes, autoText and digits. While android.view.View has accessibilityHeading, accessibilityLiveRegion, accessibilityTraversalAfter, accessibilityTraversalBefore, and alpha. The following below will have the details on each of these XMLs’ starting from android.widget.TextView to android.view.View. Starting with autoLink, it is an xml that decides and controls whether that links of urls and emails are automatically found and can be turned into links that can be clicked on. autoSizeMaxTextSize and autoSizeMinTextSize are the maximum and minimum text sizes that are constraintt when using the auto-sizing text. While the autoSizePresetSizes are a resource array of dimensions used with the autoSizeTextType set to match on indication. autoText if set, specified that the TextView has a textual method and automatically corrects common spelling errors. Android:digits is if set properly it will specify the TextView its in to check if it has a numerical input methods and that the specific characters used are the only ones that it will use and acknowledge.
While for android.view.View, the accessbilityHeading is a heading whether or not that this view has accessibility purposes. The accessibilityLiveRegion checks if there is accessibility services whether the user should be notified when the view is changed. accessibilityTraversalAfter and accessibilityTraversalBefore sets the id of a view after/before which this view is visited in the accessibility traversal. The android:alpha is an alpha property of the view as a digit between 0 and 1, where 0 being completely transparent and 1 being completely opaque.

## References
https://developer.android.com/reference/android/widget/AutoCompleteTextView


